Launch (#16)
volkamerlab/volkamerlab_org: content/projects/t2f-pharm.md

---
title: T²F-Pharm
date: 2020-03-03
publishdate: 2020-03-03
weight: 10
nav: false
people:
- key: pratik.dhakal
- key: jeremie.mortier
- key: andrea.volkamer
funding:
- name: Bundesministerium für Bildung und Forschung, grant ID 031A262C
publications:
- t2f2018
---

Pharmacophore models are an accurate and minimal tridimensional abstraction of intermolecular interactions between chemical structures, usually derived from a group of molecules or from a ligand-target complex.
Only a limited amount of solutions exists to model comprehensive pharmacophores using the information
of a particular target structure without knowledge of any binding ligand.
In the T²F-Pharm project, we developed an automated and customable tool for truly target-focused pharmacophore modeling.

> <!--more-->

Reviewer: As I understand, this line indicates that the content below is only shown when we actually visit the project (here `t2f-pharm.md`), but not when visiting the parent site (here `pharmacophores.md`).

However, the full text is shown here
https://launch--admiring-blackwell-3e6756.netlify.app/research/structure-based/pharmacophores/

as opposed to e.g. here
https://launch--admiring-blackwell-3e6756.netlify.app/research/structure-based/binding-sites/

The behavior seems different to me, but maybe I am misled here.

Author: Thanks for the excellent catch, again! Yes, we were using `content` shortcodes instead of `intro`. Fixed!

Key molecular interaction fields of a macromolecular structure are calculated using the AutoGRID energy functions.
The most relevant points are selected by a newly developed filtering cascade and clustered to pharmacophore features with a density-based algorithm.
This method represents an extremely valuable instrument for drug design in a situation of scarce ligand information available, but also in the case of underexplored therapeutic targets,
as well as to investigate protein allosteric pockets and protein-protein interactions.

> {{< xfigure src="/images/research/t2fpharm.png" caption="T²F-Pharm methodology" imageclass="fit" >}}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{{< xfigure src="/images/research/t2fpharm.png" caption="T²F-Pharm allows to generate pharmacophore models from apo binding sites by extracting energy hot spots for important pharmacophoric features." imageclass="fit" >}}
```
